For the thing to work, of course, I have to write as well.
Read a couple of books that fill you in in the 20th century background.
The Duked and Large Enough, Dave Rambo.
Oak Knoll books in Newcastle, Delaware.
I have a bibliography about books.
Duked and Large Enough is great.
The Rosenbach biography.
I've already interviewed Ed Wolfe by the way.
He's great.
You know what Ed says on the record?
He believes that Krauss was a better, was a more knowledgeable bookman than Rosenbach.
I think he was.
I think Krauss... I think Krauss could well.
To have this come from Ed Wolff is unbelievable.
I think Krauss could well have been.
Krauss came over in the late 30s.
Krauss would die for stock.
Krauss would go to a sale like this and buy the things in his own inventory to dominate, control the market.
And he began, Krauss got into it in the late 50s, a couple books of hours sales in London, Chester Beatty, and that's where the market came out of the depression.
You can almost see in the late 50s the market going to go up.
I mean, stuff looks dirt cheap compared to today.
But Krauss was a major, major force.
Rosenbach cross-handled very difficult groups.
That, I mean, whether he was greater than Rosenbach... He didn't say greater.
I think he said he was more knowledgeable.
I mean, he made group greater than Taika.
You know what I mean?
In terms of knowing... In terms of knowledge... But then on the other hand, he said, you know, Dr. Rosenbach...
was earned.
He said, you don't ever think that that was, no, that PhD was earned.
I don't know.
I think Roosevelt did.
I mean, Krause also had, I mean, hired fantastic people.
Jack Fabian, those people who have been, who have produced his catalogs.
Hans Krause didn't sit there and catalog that stuff.
But he was a businessman, entrepreneur.
Like, Thurman would want to be Krause.
I can get in touch with you again?
Get in touch with me.
I'll give you some more emotional stuff.
Okay, let's think about it.
Are you going to come down to New York again?
This is my third trip in the last week, so I'm happy.
Yeah, because there's a couple stories that I do.
I try to...
I'll call you periodically.
When's the best time to reach you?
I'll be around last summer.
You know, leave a message.
If I'm out, just leave a message.
I'll call you back.
You know, you have no number?
I got that 800 number.
Let me give you this anyway.
Did I give you this last time?
And this is how you want to be?
Yeah, but Bart Auerbach.
But that's how you want to be identified?
Yeah, because I'm talking as an individual, too.
But I mean Bart Auerbach.
That's your full name, Bart Auerbach.
It's my full name.
Oh, yeah.
I mean, the business is Bart Auerbach Limited.
And I got you.
I have a 508-793-91.
86?
Is that your office or whom?
Yeah, that's the office.
Home is 839.
9257.
And I also have an 800 number at the newspaper.
No, no, I got three hours.
One other quick question.
Do you think, in general, that prices for books reflect literary reputation?
I'm thinking in particular of the Americana sale of Martin when you said $28,000 in your rice borough.
There's a lot of stuff going on now.
I talked to Gordon Ray about this some years ago.
As you're getting a dilution,
standards of education in America.
You're getting new money that comes into the field, guys produce TV shows, guys produce movies, and they're even telling you in Hollywood nobody reads anything about that.
So rather than anybody like Bob Puri, who
Let's say you went to Harvard in the 50s and you begin with Spencer and you read your way through.
People now are reading and like to collect the books and then something to them in their childhood teenage years that are on Channel 13, that are on PBS.
They like, it's kind of pop culture coming into it.
See?
So that's the reason you have Frankenstein bringing $80,000.
That's the reason you have Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde, Sherlock Holmes.
Tarzan.
Tarzan, Jack London.
The Leibs.
Kathy Leibs says easy books drive out the heart.
Kathy Leibs, you might want to talk to her.
It's the Leibs.
I'll have to give you that phone number.
They publish American Book Prices Courage.
Oh, I know her.
You know, she's good.
She'll give you unbelievable quotes.
She'll give you real stuff.
I'm supposed to talk to her.
Say, expand on what Bart Auerbach quoted from you about the easy, easy books driving out the heart.
Meaning Stephen King driving out William Faulkner.
Because Faulkner's too hard to read for most people.
Look, there was a thing in the paper yesterday, CCNY.
where one student said, look, you can't assign that book to me because it's not part of my life experience.
So they're getting a watering down of educational standards in the United States.
You, me, I give you people to tell, that's a given, that's a fact.
Now, the reasons for it, we can argue about and explore, but it's a fact that it's happening.
So somebody really trained, really brought up, and having read English literature, and having, you know, read Paul, read Swift, read Rodden, read the restoration tragedies, read Spencer, read Milton.
This is going down.
These are the white, what do they call them?
white dead male poets.
You see?
And then it's the adventure stories, the popular stuff, the pop culture,
Dickens, Hartley Collective.
Dickens was an incredibly popular writer at the time.
Melville.
Post sunk down a bit.
Melville's coming up.
His prices were a little shaky.
A little shaky.
I mean, this isn't a hard time.
I mean, they were high, but they didn't hit the lowest.
They didn't hit, no.
There were some others.
For technical reasons, too, I think that Sotheby's
We've been selling so much market in one year, just kind of flooded the market.
Of Christie's, we probably would have spread a la Bohini over two years.
Let the market absorb this stuff.
It was supposed to be very rare, and here we're coming out with the last collection anybody can ever get.
You see, so there's a lot of this popular stuff coming into the thing, detective literature,
Jules Byrne, a manuscript of Jules Byrne, I bought for a collector in Coke for 45,000, 26-page manuscript.
But it's Jules Byrne science fiction.
You bought that elsewhere?
I bought that for you.
There's a collector in Santa Barbara.
You're not doing manuscript collectors.
Oh, I am, actually.
You are.
His name is Dave Karpolis.
Is he Greek?
No.
I'm Greek, that's right.
I think he's Jewish background.
No, I'm Greek, that's all.
K-A-R-P-L-E-S.
K-A-R-P-E-L-E-S.
and i can i'll be talking to him today he's i bid for him he has a major he's a major major collector out he's in san diego in santa barbara i'm going out to l.a next month maybe you can go up and see him say you're writing a book about the book collectors about about you know collecting where is he in the book you can call him out of the blue
And here's his number.
That's the number I was dying with.
Really?
Yeah.
He has a thing called the Carpetus Manuscript Library.
There's two libraries out there.
I've heard of this.
He does exhibitions.
Grendel knows them.
Well, get background from Ken.
I act as an agent bidding for him in New York.
It's Dave Carpetus.
K-A-R-P-E-L-E-S.
K-A-R-P-E-L-E-
805-969-3983.
He'd probably like a little publicity.
He'd be very interesting.
He's a self-made man.
He began collecting in the Houghton sale in 1978, and he has a fabulous collection.
I mean, he's a serious... With the death of Malcolm Forbes, Dave Carpetus could well be the leading American collector.
I'm talking about paper.
Dave buys everything from Scottish Armada archives, to music, to literary material, to exploration, even the real estate business.
Mid-fifties.
You interviewed Bart.
You've been talking to Kenneth.
All the major people.
It's a random house book.
And Bart said you have to talk to him.
And if you go out there, he'll be very hospitable.
Come up to Santa Barbara.
He has two...
Two museums in Santa Barbara.
We're going out in July.
We're going to see Bill South.
South is a good friend.
South is a fantastic friend.
He's from the old store.
Bill South is good.
Have you ever heard?
Talk to New Weinstein at Heritage Bookshop.
His brother Ben was there today, but new is the real engine.
That's in LA, right?
LA.
Heritage Bookshop, they're on...
Mel Rose Avenue.
He's been very good.
I mean, he's a guy who's been around for 20 years.
He can really talk about stuff.
You see?
He's been really wonderful.
Some of the old dealers out there, Jake Zaitland has passed on.
He was very important.
That was too bad I missed that one.
Mel Edelstein, who's at the Getty.
He's an old-time collector.
If you want to get a viewpoint from the library field, Mel Edelstein, he's at the Getty Center.
I talked to Ricky Jay, by the way.
Ricky Jay, by the way.
All the trade loves Ricky.
We all love Ricky Jay.
Right.
It's so great.
He's so lively.
He's good.
He's got taste.
Next year, there's a club we have in New York called The Old Book Table.
The what?
The old book table.
It's a club of 20, 25 beauters.
We meet at the Glorier Club for dinner and schmoozing and drinks the first Thursday every month from October through May.
So maybe October, November, December, come down as a guest.
You're going to know half the people anyway.
So I'll tell you.
I'll give you a warning.
You want to earmark... You want to earmark...
the first thursday in october that's your life one of your mark that come down and you're going to see everybody there weissman's a member schreiber me roll father massey from october november did you see uh make it october okay make it october i think it'd be fine you could tell a couple more anecdotes and then by then it'll be pretty well written too i mean that's yeah because all the guys will know you you see you talk to fred you talk to me
So come down, and you might, you know, we just sit around, we have dinner, we have some hour drinks, we have dinner, we kind of talk.
Occasionally we have a guest, a librarian, a collector, another dealer.
I'm going to go back and see if it's a nice place.
I'm going to bid on some of these, uh, I think it stopped raining.